study.md, before:

# Structure Query Language Study

Use your favorite search engine and the provided readings to research and
respond to the following questions.

In your responses, be sure to cite any relevant sources you consulted in your
search. We ask you to write responses in your own words in order to see how you
process what you've read. Please do not respond with direct quotes from source
material. Instead, digest what you've read and repeat it in your own voice.

## Required Readings

Please _read_ the following from the [PostgreSQL
Documentation](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/index.html):

-   The [Preface](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/preface.html)
excluding [Bug Reporting
Guidelines](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/bug-reporting.html).
-   In Part I. [Tutorial](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/tutorial.html)

    -   Chapter 1. [Getting Started](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/tutorial-start.html)
    -   Chapter 2. [The SQL Language](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/tutorial-sql.html).

You are not expected to create tutorial files as described in [2.1.
Introduction](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/tutorial-sql-intro.html).

## Notation conventions

What characters denote optional parts of a command?
Show the characters and give their name.

```md
<!-- replace this comment with your answer -->
```

What characters indicate a possibly repeating element in a command?
Show the characters and give their name.

```md
<!-- replace this comment with your answer -->
```

## Creating or removing a database

What shell command would you execute to create a database named `mydb`?

```sh
# replace this comment with your answer
```

What shell command would you execute to remove a database named `mydb`?

```sh
# replace this comment with your answer
```

## Creating or removing a table

What two SQL keywords precede the table name when creating a database table?

```sql
/* replace this comment with your answer */
```

What is the SQL command to remove a database table named `mytable`?

```sql
/* replace this comment with your answer */
```

## Table row CRUD

What two SQL keywords precede the table name when populating
a database table with rows?

```sql
/* replace this comment with your answer */
```

What SQL keyword starts the command to retrieve data from a database table?

```sql
/* replace this comment with your answer */
```

What SQL command is used to update existing rows in a database table?

```sql
/* replace this comment with your answer */
```

What SQL command is used to remove rows from a database table?

```sql
/* replace this comment with your answer */
```

Commit message:

Answer all questions
Answer all questions

study.md, after:

# Structure Query Language Study

Use your favorite search engine and the provided readings to research and
respond to the following questions.

In your responses, be sure to cite any relevant sources you consulted in your
search. We ask you to write responses in your own words in order to see how you
process what you've read. Please do not respond with direct quotes from source
material. Instead, digest what you've read and repeat it in your own voice.

## Required Readings

Please _read_ the following from the [PostgreSQL
Documentation](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/index.html):

-   The [Preface](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/preface.html)
excluding [Bug Reporting
Guidelines](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/bug-reporting.html).
-   In Part I. [Tutorial](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/tutorial.html)

    -   Chapter 1. [Getting Started](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/tutorial-start.html)
    -   Chapter 2. [The SQL Language](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/tutorial-sql.html).

You are not expected to create tutorial files as described in [2.1.
Introduction](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/tutorial-sql-intro.html).

## Notation conventions

What characters denote optional parts of a command?
Show the characters and give their name.

```md

brackets ([ and ]) denote the optional parts of a command

in the synopses of Tcl commands, question marks (?) denote the optional parts

```

What characters indicate a possibly repeating element in a command?
Show the characters and give their name.

```md

dots (...) indicate potential repetition of elements

```

## Creating or removing a database

What shell command would you execute to create a database named `mydb`?

```sh

createdb mydb

```

What shell command would you execute to remove a database named `mydb`?

```sh

dropdb mydb

```

## Creating or removing a table

What two SQL keywords precede the table name when creating a database table?

```sql
/* replace this comment with your answer */
```

What is the SQL command to remove a database table named `mytable`?

```sql
/* replace this comment with your answer */
```

## Table row CRUD

What two SQL keywords precede the table name when populating
a database table with rows?

```sql

INSERT INTO

```

What SQL keyword starts the command to retrieve data from a database table?

```sql

SELECT

```

What SQL command is used to update existing rows in a database table?

```sql

UPDATE

```

What SQL command is used to remove rows from a database table?

```sql

DELETE FROM

```
